RFC: Create an RFC Process (#1662)
bevyengine/bevy: docs/rfcs/0000-template.md

> - Feature Name: (fill me in with a unique ident, `my_awesome_feature`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Feature Name: (fill me in with a unique ident, `my_awesome_feature`)
```

Reviewer: Nicer heading levels are better for screen readers, in addition to being more standard.

> # Summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary
```
```suggestion
# Summary
```

> [summary]: #summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I don't think these hyperlink tags are useful enough to be worth the confusion they can cause beginners / visual clutter. As far as I can tell, you can already link to mdbook sections just fine.

One paragraph explanation of the feature.

> # Motivation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Motivation
```

> [motivation]: #motivation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support?

> # Guide-level explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guide-level explanation
```

> [guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the engine and you were teaching it to another Bevy user. That generally means:

- Introducing new named concepts.
- Explaining the feature, ideally through simple examples of solutions to concrete problems.
- Explaining how Bevy users should *think* about the feature, and how it should impact the way they use Bevy. It should explain the impact as concretely as possible.
- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings, or migration guidance.
- If applicable, explain how this feature compares to similar existing features, and in what situations the user would use each one.

> # Reference-level explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reference-level explanation
```

> [reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is the technical portion of the RFC. Explain the design in sufficient detail that:

- Its interaction with other features is clear.
- It is reasonably clear how the feature would be implemented.
- Corner cases are dissected by example.

The section should return to the examples given in the previous section, and explain more fully how the detailed proposal makes those examples work.

> # Drawbacks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Drawbacks
```

> [drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Why should we *not* do this?

> # Rationale and alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Rationale and alternatives
```

> # Rationale and alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Rationale and alternatives
```

> [rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Why is this design the best in the space of possible designs?
- What other designs have been considered and what is the rationale for not choosing them?
- What is the impact of not doing this?
- Why is this important to implement as a feature of Bevy itself, rather than an ecosystem crate?

> # [Optional] Prior art

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## \[Optional\] Prior art
```
Escape characters to avoid mdbook trying to parse this as a link.

> [prior-art]: #prior-art

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Discuss prior art, both the good and the bad, in relation to this proposal.
This can include:

- Does this feature exist in other libraries and what experiences have their community had?
- Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this?

This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other tools and provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.

Note that while precedent set by other engines is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.

> # Unresolved questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Unresolved questions
```

> [unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC process before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before the feature PR is merged?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that comes out of this RFC?

> # [Optional] Future possibilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## \[Optional\] Future possibilities
```

> # [Optional] Future possibilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## \[Optional\] Future possibilities
```

> [future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Feature Name: (fill me in with a unique ident, `my_awesome_feature`)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

One paragraph explanation of the feature.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support?

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the engine and you were teaching it to another Bevy user. That generally means:

- Introducing new named concepts.
- Explaining the feature, ideally through simple examples of solutions to concrete problems.
- Explaining how Bevy users should *think* about the feature, and how it should impact the way they use Bevy. It should explain the impact as concretely as possible.
- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings, or migration guidance.
- If applicable, explain how this feature compares to similar existing features, and in what situations the user would use each one.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

This is the technical portion of the RFC. Explain the design in sufficient detail that:

- Its interaction with other features is clear.
- It is reasonably clear how the feature would be implemented.
- Corner cases are dissected by example.

The section should return to the examples given in the previous section, and explain more fully how the detailed proposal makes those examples work.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Why should we *not* do this?

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

- Why is this design the best in the space of possible designs?
- What other designs have been considered and what is the rationale for not choosing them?
- What is the impact of not doing this?
- Why is this important to implement as a feature of Bevy itself, rather than an ecosystem crate?

# [Optional] Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

Discuss prior art, both the good and the bad, in relation to this proposal.

> A few examples of what this can include are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can include:
```

- Does this feature exist in other libraries and what experiences have their community had?

> - Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this? If you have some relevant papers to refer to, this can serve as a more detailed theoretical background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this?
```
Brevity is the soul of wit.

> This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other languages, provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other tools and provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.
```

> If there is no prior art, that is fine - your ideas are interesting to us whether they are brand new or if it is an adaptation from other languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Redundant as this section is made optional.

Note that while precedent set by other engines is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC process before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before the feature PR is merged?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that comes out of this RFC?

# [Optional] Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

Think about what the natural extension and evolution of your proposal would
be and how it would affect Bevy as a whole in a holistic way.
Try to use this section as a tool to more fully consider other possible
interactions with the engine in your proposal.

This is also a good place to "dump ideas", if they are out of scope for the
RFC you are writing but otherwise related.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove excess white-space.

Note that having something written down in the future-possibilities section
is not a reason to accept the current or a future RFC; such notes should be
in the section on motivation or rationale in this or subsequent RFCs.

> The section merely provides additional information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a feature or change has no direct value on its own, expand your RFC to include the first valuable feature that would build on it.
```

Replace platitude with actionable advice.

- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings, or migration guidance.
- If applicable, explain how this feature compares to similar existing features, and in what situations the user would use each one.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

This is the technical portion of the RFC. Explain the design in sufficient detail that:

- Its interaction with other features is clear.
- It is reasonably clear how the feature would be implemented.
- Corner cases are dissected by example.

The section should return to the examples given in the previous section, and explain more fully how the detailed proposal makes those examples work.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Why should we *not* do this?

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

- Why is this design the best in the space of possible designs?
- What other designs have been considered and what is the rationale for not choosing them?
- What is the impact of not doing this?

> - Why must this be a feature of Bevy itself, rather than an ecosystem crate?

Reviewer: I think this is too strong: we should have compelling reasons to add things to the engine, rather than "literally no other choice".
```suggestion
- Why is this important to implement as a feature of Bevy itself, rather than an ecosystem crate?
```

- Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this? If you have some relevant papers to refer to, this can serve as a more detailed theoretical background.

This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other languages, provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.
If there is no prior art, that is fine - your ideas are interesting to us whether they are brand new or if it is an adaptation from other languages.

Note that while precedent set by other engines is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC process before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before the feature PR is merged?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that comes out of this RFC?

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

Think about what the natural extension and evolution of your proposal would

> be and how it would affect Bevy as a whole in a holistic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be and how it would affect Bevy as a whole in a holistic way.
```

> way. Try to use this section as a tool to more fully consider all possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try to use this section as a tool to more fully consider other possible
```

Reviewer: Weakened wording to make it less intimidating.

interactions with the engine in your proposal.

> Also consider how this all fits into the roadmap for the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think that this is a useful line. Our roadmap isn't going to be super clearly defined for a long time, and I think this is very intimidating for new contributors.

- Feature Name: (fill me in with a unique ident, `my_awesome_feature`)

> - Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)

Reviewer: I don't think this line serves a useful purpose for us.

A few examples of what this can include are:

- Does this feature exist in other libraries and what experiences have their community had?
- Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this? If you have some relevant papers to refer to, this can serve as a more detailed theoretical background.

This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other languages, provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.
If there is no prior art, that is fine - your ideas are interesting to us whether they are brand new or if it is an adaptation from other languages.

Note that while precedent set by other engines is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC process before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before the feature PR is merged?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that comes out of this RFC?

> # Future possibilities

Reviewer: If we're doing optional sections, this should also be optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [Optional] Future possibilities
```

[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

Think about what the natural extension and evolution of your proposal would
be and how it would affect Bevy as a whole in a holistic
way. Try to use this section as a tool to more fully consider all possible
interactions with the engine in your proposal.
Also consider how this all fits into the roadmap for the project.

This is also a good place to "dump ideas", if they are out of scope for the
RFC you are writing but otherwise related.

> If you have tried and cannot think of any future possibilities,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> you may simply state that you cannot think of anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Feature Name: (fill me in with a unique ident, `my_awesome_feature`)
- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

One paragraph explanation of the feature.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support?

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

> Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the language and you were teaching it to another Bevy user. That generally means:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the engine and you were teaching it to another Bevy user. That generally means:
```

- Introducing new named concepts.

> - Explaining the feature, largely in terms of examples grounded in simple and common game constructs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Explaining the feature, ideally through simple examples of solutions to concrete problems.
```

- Explaining how Bevy users should *think* about the feature, and how it should impact the way they use Bevy. It should explain the impact as concretely as possible.
- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings, or migration guidance.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

This is the technical portion of the RFC. Explain the design in sufficient detail that:

- Its interaction with other features is clear.
- It is reasonably clear how the feature would be implemented.
- Corner cases are dissected by example.

The section should return to the examples given in the previous section, and explain more fully how the detailed proposal makes those examples work.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Why should we *not* do this?

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

- Why is this design the best in the space of possible designs?
- What other designs have been considered and what is the rationale for not choosing them?
- What is the impact of not doing this?

> # Prior art

Reviewer: IMO this section should be optional. I can see it being very useful for well-trod ground like rendering features or animation, but in other cases like archetype invariants it would be an intimidating waste of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [Optional] Prior art
```

[prior-art]: #prior-art

Discuss prior art, both the good and the bad, in relation to this proposal.
A few examples of what this can include are:

> - For language, library, cargo, tools, and compiler proposals: Does this feature exist in other programming languages and what experience have their community had?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Does this feature exist in other libraries and what experiences have their community had?
```

> - For community proposals: Is this done by some other community and what were their experiences with it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - For other teams: What lessons can we learn from what other communities have done here?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this? If you have some relevant papers to refer to, this can serve as a more detailed theoretical background.

This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other languages, provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.
If there is no prior art, that is fine - your ideas are interesting to us whether they are brand new or if it is an adaptation from other languages.

> Note that while precedent set by other languages is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that while precedent set by other engines is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.
```

> Please also take into consideration that rust sometimes intentionally diverges from common language features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC process before this gets merged?
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before the feature PR is merged?
- What related issues do you consider out of scope for this RFC that could be addressed in the future independently of the solution that comes out of this RFC?

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

Think about what the natural extension and evolution of your proposal would

> be and how it would affect the language and project as a whole in a holistic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be and how it would affect Bevy as a whole in a holistic
```

way. Try to use this section as a tool to more fully consider all possible

> interactions with the project and language in your proposal.
> Also consider how this all fits into the roadmap for the project
> and of the relevant sub-team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interactions with the engine in your proposal.
Also consider how this all fits into the roadmap for the project.
```

We're not at "we have sub-teams" level just yet.

- Feature Name: (fill me in with a unique ident, `my_awesome_feature`)
- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)

> - RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/0000)

Reviewer: Not needed.
```suggestion
```

> - Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Committed in a duplicate.

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

One paragraph explanation of the feature.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support? What is the expected outcome?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why are we doing this? What use cases does it support?
```

"What is the expected outcome" feels unclear to me in general, expected in the context of Bevy.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

> Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the language and you were teaching it to another Rust programmer. That generally means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explain the proposal as if it was already included in the language and you were teaching it to another Bevy user. That generally means:
```

- Introducing new named concepts.

> - Explaining the feature largely in terms of examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explaining the feature, largely in terms of examples grounded in simple and common game constructs.
```

Examples with `Life`, `Score` etc are much easier to read than abstract `Foo` examples.

> - Explaining how Rust programmers should *think* about the feature, and how it should impact the way they use Rust. It should explain the impact as concretely as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explaining how Bevy users should *think* about the feature, and how it should impact the way they use Bevy. It should explain the impact as concretely as possible.
```

> - Explaining how Rust programmers should *think* about the feature, and how it should impact the way they use Rust. It should explain the impact as concretely as possible.

Reviewer: I would be very interested in a line to include docs on comparisons to other similar features, and when you should use each.

- If applicable, provide sample error messages, deprecation warnings, or migration guidance.

> - If applicable, describe the differences between teaching this to existing Rust programmers and new Rust programmers.

Reviewer: This line is not needed.

> For implementation-oriented RFCs (e.g. for compiler internals), this section should focus on how compiler contributors should think about the change, and give examples of its concrete impact. For policy RFCs, this section should provide an example-driven introduction to the policy, and explain its impact in concrete terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I don't think this line adds anything for us.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

This is the technical portion of the RFC. Explain the design in sufficient detail that:

- Its interaction with other features is clear.
- It is reasonably clear how the feature would be implemented.
- Corner cases are dissected by example.

The section should return to the examples given in the previous section, and explain more fully how the detailed proposal makes those examples work.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

Why should we *not* do this?

# Rationale and alternatives
[rationale-and-alternatives]: #rationale-and-alternatives

- Why is this design the best in the space of possible designs?
- What other designs have been considered and what is the rationale for not choosing them?

> - What is the impact of not doing this?

Reviewer: Why should this design be part of Bevy itself, rather than an ecosystem crate?

Reviewer 2: I'd put that as "Why does this feature have to be a part of Bevy itself, rather than an ecosystem crate?" - there are many ephemeral reasons for "should", including those listed in motivation section, while "has to" deals in concrete technical considerations. E.g., "Many-to-many labels have to be a part of Bevy itself, because building something like that as a third-party crate will require reimplementing most of `SystemStage` from ground up." or "Reliable change detection modifies a core part of Bevy and it doesn't make sense for it to exist on its own."

> # Prior art

Reviewer: I'm concerned that this section is too onerous for Bevy.

- For community proposals: Is this done by some other community and what were their experiences with it?
- For other teams: What lessons can we learn from what other communities have done here?
- Papers: Are there any published papers or great posts that discuss this? If you have some relevant papers to refer to, this can serve as a more detailed theoretical background.

This section is intended to encourage you as an author to think about the lessons from other languages, provide readers of your RFC with a fuller picture.
If there is no prior art, that is fine - your ideas are interesting to us whether they are brand new or if it is an adaptation from other languages.

Note that while precedent set by other languages is some motivation, it does not on its own motivate an RFC.
Please also take into consideration that rust sometimes intentionally diverges from common language features.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the RFC process before this gets merged?

> - What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before stabilization?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What parts of the design do you expect to resolve through the implementation of this feature before the feature PR is merged?
```

Reviewer: lol "stabilization"
